The DAFO is a strategic diagnostic
tool, which allows us to
analyze what our current
situation is to make decisions
afterwards.
Well, there is a model in which
it is established, we determine
four strategies based on the conclusions
of the DAFO.
We don't say that you should apply
this to raja table, but it helps
you understand a little, after you
have done the DAFO, it helps you
do a little deeper analysis and
understand where you should
go or what it should be, what
the general lines of your
strategy are.
Let's go to the first case.
Imagine that you are in
a situation where you have many
strengths and there are many
external opportunities.
In such a situation, what do
you have to do?
Well, you have to be very
aggressive, you have to have an
offensive strategy, you have to capitalize
or support yourself or balance
up on those strengths to take
advantage of all the opportunities
that are on the market,
invest strongly, grow,
etc.
We will think now that we have many
strengths over competitors, we
have competitive advantages,
good product, etc., but it
turns out that the market,
the environment, come quite
a few threats.
We will encounter many threats,
so in this case, what
do we have to do?
Well, in such a situation you don't
have to be so aggressive, we have
to have a more prudent strategy,
a defensive strategy.
We can get through the storm,
why?
Because we have those strengths,
but what doesn't seem like in
such a situation, when the market
won't be thanked, etc., what doesn't
seem prudent is to invest
so strongly, is to be so
aggressive.
Now we think we are in the
opposite situation.
We have, the market seems or
the sector presents
itself in opportunities, it
will be able to grow, demand
will grow, etc., however, we
have many internal weaknesses
and in this case what we have
to do is to make an adaptation
or reorientation strategy.
We want to take advantage
of those opportunities already,
but we have weaknesses, the first
thing we have to do is work internally
on those weaknesses to
be able to take advantage of
external opportunities.
And lastly, the worst of the circumstances,
it turns out that you have many internal
weaknesses and in addition
is that the market will not grow.
In this case, the strategy
here is nothing but pure
survival.